src/markdown/blog/tutorial-url-shortener-supabase-ory-integration.mdx, before:

---
templateKey: blog
path: '/tutorial-url-shortener-supabase-ory-integration/'
author: gen1us2k
title: Building an URL shortener with Supabase and Ory
teaser:
  Learn how to build a URL shortener using open source ready-to-use solutions
  using the Ory Kratos and Supabase open source projects. Includes code examples
  for Go and Docker!
subtitle:
  Step-by-step guide to create URL shortener with authentication using Ory Cloud
overline: Ory Supabase Integration
publishedAt: 2022-03-15
published: true
description: ''
tags:
  - Guide
  - Authentication
  - Ory Cloud
  - Open Source
  - User Management
---

import CodeFromRemote from '../../components/freestanding/utils/codefromremote'

Developers can save time by using ready-made solutions to build new products.
Most startups concentrate on solving one problem and doing it well. We have at
least three cloud providers to host our code. There are multiple choices on what
to use to build a frontend for our next project. For example the
[VueJS](https://vuejs.org/) and [ReactJS](https://reactjs.org/) projects with
broad open source communities.

In this article, I'll show you an example of how to build an URL shortener using
a modern open source technology stack.

You can find the source code for this project
[on GitHub](https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts).

## What we will use

- [Ory Kratos](https://www.ory.sh/kratos/docs/) to manage identities and users.
  We'll use an open source self-hosted version for this tutorial, but for
  production I recommend [Ory Cloud](https://ory.sh/docs/cloud) - you get a
  fully featured Ory Kratos instance deployed and
  [ready to use for free](https://console.ory.sh/registration?preferred_plan=developer).
- [Supabase](https://supabase.com) is the opensource alternative to Firebase.
  Supabase Database comes with a [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/)
  database, a free and open-source database that is considered one of the
  world's most stable and advanced databases. We'll use Supabase as database for
  our URL shortener.
- [Ory Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper) would be a great example
  of applying Zero Trust architecture for our project. We'll use it as identity
  and access proxy.
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) is a powerful, open source
  object-relational database system with over 30 years of active development
  that has earned it a strong reputation for reliability, robustness, and
  performance.
- [golang-migrate](https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate) to perform
  database migrations.

## Backend choices

I'm a huge fan of the [Go programming language](https://go.dev/), and I've been
coding using this language since late 2014. I love the simplicity of the Go
language design and the ecosystem around it.

- It's good to perform static code analysis to make your backend systems more
  robust and stable. [golangci-lint](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint)
  is a feature-rich linter that gives you feedback about your code. You can find
  a lot of linters available.
- Strongly typed programming language with static data types. One does not need
  to write tests to check that your code will never mess with data types.
  `int i` makes `i` an integer forever.
- It's easy to follow SOLID principles and clear architecture using Go.
- In addition, Go is fast and well-scaled programming language

### Database migrations

Database migrations should be used once you use any relational database
management system (RDMBS) in your project because you need to change the
database schema from time to time. It helps you track the different versions of
your schema and easily perform forwards and downwards migrations. In the
pythonic world, it's easy to decide what tool to use for schema migrations
because it's usually comes out of the box with the selected framework. For
instance, we have flask-migrate for flask and Django migrations for Django.
Since Go uses the UNIX philosophy to build the architecture of your project, you
need to choose:

- a HTTP router for your endpoints.
- an ORM or a library to work with the database.
- a tool to perform migrations.

The Go programming language has at least two tools for schema migrations. I used
both `goose` and `migrate`, and for this project, I decided to go with
`migrate`. Migrate supports more databases, and I want to make the DB layer in
this project database agnostic.

My requirements for the Go migration tool:

1. Plain SQL migrations support. I don't want to learn an additional filetype
   formats. I know SQL and I know how to create tables. That's enough. Unlike
   Django, Go does not have any good
   [Active Record pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_record_pattern)
   implementations. I hope that there will be more ORMs and better tooling once
   is [Go 1.18](https://tip.golang.org/doc/go1.18) released - generics are on
   the way.
2. Support of open source RDBMS like Postgres, MySQL (and all their forks),
   Oracle (I don't use it yet).
3. Programmable API or a shorthanded way to apply migrations.
4. Upward/Downward support.

### Gin

A URL shortener is a lightweight service, and it would be ideal to have a simple
enough package to build an HTTP API around it. You have several options on what
to choose to solve this issue, and the most popular frameworks are:

- [Echo](https://echo.labstack.com)
- [Gin](https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin)
- [Go-kit](https://github.com/go-kit/kit)

Go-kit is an excellent framework for building a complex system with many
microservices. Even a simple net/http with HTTP router would be enough for our
example. Usually, I toss a coin when I choose between Echo and Gin, so I use Gin
in this project.

I'm huge fan of gRPC when I build APIs with Go and I used it a lot previously.
Also, I'm huge fan of the Echo framework. I chose Gin because of it's
simplicity, convenience, and feature rich support. A simple `net/http` would be
enough to build this project with
[httprouter](https://github.com/julienschmidt/httprouter) but Gin is nice to
work with.

![Illustration of Gopher at work](media/gopher-at-work.png)

_Okay. Let's start hacking, shall we?_

## Configuration package

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/cmd/shorts/main.go"
  lang="golang"
/>

## Defining database schema.

The database for our URL shortener should have the following tables:

- `url` table to store shortened URLs.
- `url_view` table to store views. This information will be useful to build
  additional reports for users about top referrers, urlviews or something else.

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS url (
	id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
	url VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
	hash varchar(10) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
	created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
	expired_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE,
	owner_id VARCHAR(36) NOT NULL DEFAULT ''
);

CREATE UNIQUE INDEX idx_url_hash ON url(hash);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS url_view (
	id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
	referer VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
	url_id INT NOT NULL,
	CONSTRAINT fk_url_view FOREIGN KEY(url_id) REFERENCES url(id)
);
```

## Creating Supabase project and tables

- From your [Supabase dashboard](https://app.supabase.io/) , click
  `New project`.
- Enter a `Name` for your Supabase project.
- Enter a secure `Database Password`.
- Select the `Region` you want.
- Click Create new project.

![Create Project](./media/supabase/supabase-create-project.png)

- Open table editor.
- Click on `SQL editor` on sidebar.
- Insert SQL table definition from the previous step.
- Click `Run` to create tables.

![Create tables](./media/supabase/supabase-create-table.png)

## Designing the database

I always use interfaces for the database layer because of the following
benefits:

- I can change a database simply by implementing a designed interface.
- It helps me to think and design a proper layer for the database.
- It helps to reduce dependencies between different parts of the codebase.
- It helps to write more modular and decoupled code.
- I can always implement a mock for my database layer by simply implementing a
  mock layer and use it in tests.

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/database/database.go"
  lang="golang"
/>

## Implementing the Database

Supabase uses Postgres as their main RDBMS. Also, they use
[PostgREST](https://postgrest.org/en/stable/), a standalone web server that
turns your PostgreSQL database directly into a RESTful API. The structural
constraints and permissions in the database determine the API endpoints and
operations. Here's the supabase implementation of the database layer.

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/database/supabase.go"
  lang="golang"
/>

## Designing the HTTP API

An URL shortener is a simple project so we need only two endpoints:

- Shorten URLs by passing a POST request to `/api/url`
- Get created URLs by passing a GET request to `/api/url` endpoint

Here's the implementation for our API:

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/api/api.go"
  lang="golang"
/>

## Plugging everything together

Create a file in `cmd/shorts/main.go` with the following content

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/config/config.go"
  lang="golang"
/>

## Configuring Ory Oathkeeper

I'll use [Ory Oathkeeper](https://github.com/ory/oathkeeper) to implement zero
trust network configuration. Ory Oathkeeper acts as a reverse proxy in this
example, but it checks if the request is authenticated.

URLs that follow `/u/hash` pattern should be available to anonymous users, and
the API should be available only for authenticated users.

### Basic configuration for Ory Oathkeeper

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/oathkeeper/oathkeeper.yml"
  lang="yaml"
/>

### Access rules for Ory Oathkeeper

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/oathkeeper/access-rules.yml"
  lang="yaml"
/>

## Authenticating users

You can follow the
[Ory Kratos Quickstart](https://www.ory.sh/docs/kratos/quickstart) to add Ory
Kratos to your project. You can inspect the
[docker-compose](https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/docker-compose.yml)
and the
[Ory Kratos configuration](https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/tree/master/kratos)
folder in the repository, but this basic configuration is based on the
Quickstart guide.

### Authentication middleware

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/middleware/middleware.go"
  lang="go"
/>

## Conclusion & next steps

We have implemented the basic URL shortener API and added authentication with
Ory Kratos and a SQL backend powered by Supabase. Feel free to
[fork the repository](https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/) and play around with
it.

I hope you enjoyed this tutorial and found it helpful. If you have any
questions, check out the Ory community on [Slack](https://slack.ory.sh/) and
[GitHub](https://github.com/ory/kratos/discussions).

> Stay tuned for part two, where we build the frontend!

Some ideas to improve the backend further:

- Enable
  [2FA](https://www.ory.sh/docs/kratos/guides/two-factor-authentication-2fa-mfa)
  for Ory Kratos
- Add support of AWS Lambda for backend to enable cost-effective hosting

Commit message:

fix: added an additional context for the authentication middleware (#618)
* fix: added an additional context for the authentication middleware

* chore: apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Vincent <vincent@ory.sh>

src/markdown/blog/tutorial-url-shortener-supabase-ory-integration.mdx, after:

---
templateKey: blog
path: '/tutorial-url-shortener-supabase-ory-integration/'
author: gen1us2k
title: Building an URL shortener with Supabase and Ory
teaser:
  Learn how to build a URL shortener using open source ready-to-use solutions
  using the Ory Kratos and Supabase open source projects. Includes code examples
  for Go and Docker!
subtitle:
  Step-by-step guide to create URL shortener with authentication using Ory Cloud
overline: Ory Supabase Integration
publishedAt: 2022-03-15
published: true
description: ''
tags:
  - Guide
  - Authentication
  - Ory Cloud
  - Open Source
  - User Management
---

import CodeFromRemote from '../../components/freestanding/utils/codefromremote'

Developers can save time by using ready-made solutions to build new products.
Most startups concentrate on solving one problem and doing it well. We have at
least three cloud providers to host our code. There are multiple choices on what
to use to build a frontend for our next project. For example the
[VueJS](https://vuejs.org/) and [ReactJS](https://reactjs.org/) projects with
broad open source communities.

In this article, I'll show you an example of how to build an URL shortener using
a modern open source technology stack.

You can find the source code for this project
[on GitHub](https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts).

## What we will use

- [Ory Kratos](https://www.ory.sh/kratos/docs/) to manage identities and users.
  We'll use an open source self-hosted version for this tutorial, but for
  production I recommend [Ory Cloud](https://ory.sh/docs/cloud) - you get a
  fully featured Ory Kratos instance deployed and
  [ready to use for free](https://console.ory.sh/registration?preferred_plan=developer).
- [Supabase](https://supabase.com) is the opensource alternative to Firebase.
  Supabase Database comes with a [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/)
  database, a free and open-source database that is considered one of the
  world's most stable and advanced databases. We'll use Supabase as database for
  our URL shortener.
- [Ory Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper) would be a great example
  of applying Zero Trust architecture for our project. We'll use it as identity
  and access proxy.
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/) is a powerful, open source
  object-relational database system with over 30 years of active development
  that has earned it a strong reputation for reliability, robustness, and
  performance.
- [golang-migrate](https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate) to perform
  database migrations.

## Backend choices

I'm a huge fan of the [Go programming language](https://go.dev/), and I've been
coding using this language since late 2014. I love the simplicity of the Go
language design and the ecosystem around it.

- It's good to perform static code analysis to make your backend systems more
  robust and stable. [golangci-lint](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint)
  is a feature-rich linter that gives you feedback about your code. You can find
  a lot of linters available.
- Strongly typed programming language with static data types. One does not need
  to write tests to check that your code will never mess with data types.
  `int i` makes `i` an integer forever.
- It's easy to follow SOLID principles and clear architecture using Go.
- In addition, Go is fast and well-scaled programming language

### Database migrations

Database migrations should be used once you use any relational database
management system (RDMBS) in your project because you need to change the
database schema from time to time. It helps you track the different versions of
your schema and easily perform forwards and downwards migrations. In the
pythonic world, it's easy to decide what tool to use for schema migrations
because it's usually comes out of the box with the selected framework. For
instance, we have flask-migrate for flask and Django migrations for Django.
Since Go uses the UNIX philosophy to build the architecture of your project, you
need to choose:

- a HTTP router for your endpoints.
- an ORM or a library to work with the database.
- a tool to perform migrations.

The Go programming language has at least two tools for schema migrations. I used
both `goose` and `migrate`, and for this project, I decided to go with
`migrate`. Migrate supports more databases, and I want to make the DB layer in
this project database agnostic.

My requirements for the Go migration tool:

1. Plain SQL migrations support. I don't want to learn an additional filetype
   formats. I know SQL and I know how to create tables. That's enough. Unlike
   Django, Go does not have any good
   [Active Record pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_record_pattern)
   implementations. I hope that there will be more ORMs and better tooling once
   is [Go 1.18](https://tip.golang.org/doc/go1.18) released - generics are on
   the way.
2. Support of open source RDBMS like Postgres, MySQL (and all their forks),
   Oracle (I don't use it yet).
3. Programmable API or a shorthanded way to apply migrations.
4. Upward/Downward support.

### Gin

A URL shortener is a lightweight service, and it would be ideal to have a simple
enough package to build an HTTP API around it. You have several options on what
to choose to solve this issue, and the most popular frameworks are:

- [Echo](https://echo.labstack.com)
- [Gin](https://github.com/gin-gonic/gin)
- [Go-kit](https://github.com/go-kit/kit)

Go-kit is an excellent framework for building a complex system with many
microservices. Even a simple net/http with HTTP router would be enough for our
example. Usually, I toss a coin when I choose between Echo and Gin, so I use Gin
in this project.

I'm huge fan of gRPC when I build APIs with Go and I used it a lot previously.
Also, I'm huge fan of the Echo framework. I chose Gin because of it's
simplicity, convenience, and feature rich support. A simple `net/http` would be
enough to build this project with
[httprouter](https://github.com/julienschmidt/httprouter) but Gin is nice to
work with.

![Illustration of Gopher at work](media/gopher-at-work.png)

_Okay. Let's start hacking, shall we?_

## Configuration package

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/cmd/shorts/main.go"
  lang="golang"
/>

## Defining database schema

The database for our URL shortener should have the following tables:

- `url` table to store shortened URLs.
- `url_view` table to store views. This information will be useful to build
  additional reports for users about top referrers, urlviews or something else.

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS url (
	id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
	url VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
	hash varchar(10) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
	created_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
	expired_at TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE,
	owner_id VARCHAR(36) NOT NULL DEFAULT ''
);

CREATE UNIQUE INDEX idx_url_hash ON url(hash);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS url_view (
	id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
	referer VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL DEFAULT '',
	url_id INT NOT NULL,
	CONSTRAINT fk_url_view FOREIGN KEY(url_id) REFERENCES url(id)
);
```

## Creating Supabase project and tables

- From your [Supabase dashboard](https://app.supabase.io/) , click
  `New project`.
- Enter a `Name` for your Supabase project.
- Enter a secure `Database Password`.
- Select the `Region` you want.
- Click Create new project.

![Create Project](./media/supabase/supabase-create-project.png)

- Open table editor.
- Click on `SQL editor` on sidebar.
- Insert SQL table definition from the previous step.
- Click `Run` to create tables.

![Create tables](./media/supabase/supabase-create-table.png)

## Designing the database

I always use interfaces for the database layer because of the following
benefits:

- I can change a database simply by implementing a designed interface.
- It helps me to think and design a proper layer for the database.
- It helps to reduce dependencies between different parts of the codebase.
- It helps to write more modular and decoupled code.
- I can always implement a mock for my database layer by simply implementing a
  mock layer and use it in tests.

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/database/database.go"
  lang="golang"
/>

## Implementing the Database

Supabase uses Postgres as their main RDBMS. Also, they use
[PostgREST](https://postgrest.org/en/stable/), a standalone web server that
turns your PostgreSQL database directly into a RESTful API. The structural
constraints and permissions in the database determine the API endpoints and
operations. Here's the supabase implementation of the database layer.

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/database/supabase.go"
  lang="golang"
/>

## Designing the HTTP API

An URL shortener is a simple project so we need only two endpoints:

- Shorten URLs by passing a POST request to `/api/url`
- Get created URLs by passing a GET request to `/api/url` endpoint

Here's the implementation for our API:

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/api/api.go"
  lang="golang"
/>

## Plugging everything together

Create a file in `cmd/shorts/main.go` with the following content

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/config/config.go"
  lang="golang"
/>

## Configuring Ory Oathkeeper

I'll use [Ory Oathkeeper](https://github.com/ory/oathkeeper) to implement zero
trust network configuration. Ory Oathkeeper acts as a reverse proxy in this
example, but it checks if the request is authenticated.

URLs that follow `/u/hash` pattern should be available to anonymous users, and
the API should be available only for authenticated users.

### Basic configuration for Ory Oathkeeper

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/oathkeeper/oathkeeper.yml"
  lang="yaml"
/>

### Access rules for Ory Oathkeeper

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/oathkeeper/access-rules.yml"
  lang="yaml"
/>

## Authenticating users

You can follow the
[Ory Kratos Quickstart](https://www.ory.sh/docs/kratos/quickstart) to add Ory
Kratos to your project. You can inspect the
[docker-compose](https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/docker-compose.yml)
and the
[Ory Kratos configuration](https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/tree/master/kratos)
folder in the repository, but this basic configuration is based on the
Quickstart guide.

### Authentication middleware
We configured Ory Oathkeeper to act as identity and access proxy,
and our configuration does two things:

- Check authentication and who the current session belongs by calling the [`sessions/whoami`](https://www.ory.sh/docs/kratos/reference/api#operation/toSession) endpoint of Ory Kratos.
- Get the identity.id from the previous step and modify the request by adding a `X-User` header with the user's identity id.

It means that we do not need to take any additional steps for our Go
application, and we can get the value from `X-User`
header and use it in our application.

<CodeFromRemote
  src="https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/blob/master/middleware/middleware.go"
  lang="go"
/>

## Conclusion & next steps

We have implemented the basic URL shortener API and added authentication with
Ory Kratos and a SQL backend powered by Supabase. Feel free to
[fork the repository](https://github.com/gen1us2k/shorts/) and play around with
it.

I hope you enjoyed this tutorial and found it helpful. If you have any
questions, check out the Ory community on [Slack](https://slack.ory.sh/) and
[GitHub](https://github.com/ory/kratos/discussions).

> Stay tuned for part two, where we build the frontend!

Some ideas to improve the backend further:

- Enable
  [2FA](https://www.ory.sh/docs/kratos/guides/two-factor-authentication-2fa-mfa)
  for Ory Kratos
- Add support of AWS Lambda for backend to enable cost-effective hosting
